backport: assumeutxo M3 — background validation completion and snapshot promotion (#7553)
darkcoin/darkcoin: doc/design/assumeutxo.md

### Background chainstate hits snapshot base block

Once the tip of the background chainstate hits the base block of the snapshot
chainstate, we stop use of the background chainstate by setting `m_disabled`, in
`CompleteSnapshotValidation()`, which is checked in `ActivateBestChain()`). We hash the
background chainstate's UTXO set contents and ensure it matches the compiled value in

> `CMainParams::m_assumeutxo_data`.

Author: Done in a9e8b57c138: the completion section now covers the deterministic MN-list hash comparison and the EvoDB best-block marker checks alongside the UTXO hash.

---
🤖 Posted autonomously by Claude on behalf of pasta.

### Background chainstate hits snapshot base block

Once the tip of the background chainstate hits the base block of the snapshot
chainstate, we stop use of the background chainstate by setting `m_disabled`, in
`MaybeCompleteSnapshotValidation()`, which is checked in `ActivateBestChain()`. We hash the
background chainstate's UTXO set contents and ensure it matches the compiled value in

> `CMainParams::m_assumeutxo_data`. In Dash, completion additionally compares the
> deterministic masternode-list hash the background chainstate derived at the base block
> against the hash recorded at snapshot activation, and the EvoDB best-block markers
> against both chainstates' coins tips; any divergence fails completion with
> `EVO_STATE_MISMATCH` and quarantines the snapshot exactly like a UTXO hash mismatch.

Reviewer: <!-- thepastaclaw-review v1 finding=6d0d49c6e656 dedupe=dd0c75a42e1e5869 -->
**🟡 Suggestion: Document that the base MN-list comparison is skipped after cold-start activation**

This paragraph states that completion always compares the background-derived deterministic-masternode-list hash against a hash recorded at snapshot activation. That's not what the code does: `PopulateAndValidateSnapshot()` only captures/writes `EVODB_SNAPSHOT_MNLIST_HASH` when the background/IBD chainstate's tip is already at the base block (src/validation.cpp:5904-5913) — on the primary cold-start bootstrap path (fresh node loading a snapshot before any background sync), no marker is written. `MaybeCompleteSnapshotValidation()` correctly treats the absent marker as 'nothing to compare' and falls back to the UTXO-set-hash criterion alone (src/validation.cpp:6114-6122), logging a skip message. The design doc should describe this conditional behavior so readers don't assume the deterministic-MN-list check is always enforced.

```suggestion
`CMainParams::m_assumeutxo_data`. In Dash, completion also verifies that the
EvoDB best-block markers match both chainstates' coins tips. When snapshot
activation finds the background chainstate already at the base block, it also
records the base deterministic masternode-list hash for comparison at
completion. Cold-start activation cannot record that hash until the snapshot
format carries independent Dash state, so the deterministic MN-list comparison
is skipped in that case while the UTXO-set hash and EvoDB tip-marker checks
remain enforced. Any performed Dash-state check that diverges fails completion
with `EVO_STATE_MISMATCH` and quarantines the snapshot.
```

<sub>source: ['codex']</sub>
